Petri dish
Hank's Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS) (Gibco, Cat# 14025–092)
MatrigelTM Basement Membrane Matrix, BD, Cat# 354230, USA
8-well sterile chambered borosilicate coverglass (Lab-Tek, Cat# 155411)

DRGs were located in the intervertebral foramina. DRGs were isolated using sterile surgical instruments for small laboratory animals under a stereomicroscope Olympus SZX16. The isolated tissues were immediately placed in a Petri dish containing sterile pre-chilled non-phenol red sterile Hank’s Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS) (Gibco, Cat# 14025–092) ([Figure 2](https://www.mdpi.com/2227-9059/8/3/49/htm#fig_body_display_biomedicines-08-00049-f002)) and transferred into the laminar flow hood. All further manipulations were performed in sterile conditions. Drying of the DRGs should be avoided, as this can increase the stickiness of tissue to the forceps, making it difficult to attach them to the bottom of a coverglass. Four hours prior to the experiment, the frozen Matrigel growth factors reduced (MatrigelTM Basement Membrane Matrix, BD, Cat# 354230, USA) was heated up to +4 °C on ice. For 3D tissue explant culture, DRGs were washed in sterile HBSS, placed in an 8-well sterile chambered borosilicate coverglass (Lab-Tek, Cat# 155411) and covered immediately with a drop (60 µL) of Matrigel and allowed to polymerize ([Figure 3](https://www.mdpi.com/2227-9059/8/3/49/htm#fig_body_display_biomedicines-08-00049-f003)). An increase in the volume of Matrigel drop exceeding 70 µL and Matrigel bubble formation should be avoided. For 2D DRG cultures, the plates were covered with cold Matrigel and allowed to polymerize. DRGs were placed on polymerized Matrigel surface. After Matrigel polymerization, the wells with 2D and 3D DRG cultures were filled with a warm Roswell Park Memorial Institute medium (RPMI) 1640 culturing media containing GlutaMAXT Supplement, Phenol Red (Gibco, Cat# 61870–010), antibiotic-antimycotic solution (100X, Gibco, Cat# 15240–096). Mouse NGF (100 ng/mL; Sigma-Aldrich, Cat# SRP4304), mouse BDNF (50 ng/mL; Abcam, Cat# ab9794), and mouse GDNF (50 ng/mL; Abcam, Cat# ab56286) or 10% bovine serum albumin (BSA), lyophilized powder, crystallized, ≥ 98.0% (GE; Sigma-Aldrich, Cat# 05470–5G) as a control were added to the culture media. DRG explants were cultured in 5% CO2 incubator at 37 °C for 14 days. DRGs were analyzed using whole mount immunofluorescent staining with antibodies (whole 3D mount assay) combined with confocal microscopy.